We utilize classical machine learning in order to benchmark our results with quantum computing, and to further understand the usage of classical machine learning methods for geophysical data analysis. 

We work on a classical autoencoder, and a classical fully connected artificial neural network. These help us compare the results of the respective quantum methods, and provide useful insights into the applicability of machine learning in seismic impedance inversion specifically. 

The autoencoder consists of encoding and decoding layers. In our first model, we test with dimensions of sizes 161, 30, 15, 30, 161 for seismic trace data from the Volve field dataset, where 161 is the input and output size, and 15 is the encoding dimension size. The model contains a simple architecture, using Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) activation functions in between layers, and a Sigmoid activation function at the end. We do not utilize any batch processing, normalization, or other methods. Once we are able to accurately reconstruct the initial seismic trace, we move onto training and testing on synthetically produced data, obtained from the notebook for Das et al.'s paper on seismic impedance inversion using CNN's. We use a similar structure to before, but change the input and output sizes to be according to the data size. We then reconstruct several random seismic traces from the synthetic dataset, and view the capability of classical autoencoders in reconstructing, and also denoising seismic data. Since seismic signals are often noisy as well, this shows us an effective method to reconstruct the signals with a lower dimensionality, as well as with much less noise. 

We also attempt to build an artificial neural network for estimating seismic impedance given seismic trace data. The neural network used is simple, with input and output dimensions that are defined by the length of the seismic traces and corresponding impedances, and variable hidden layers. We once again test this both on a measurement from the Volve field dataset, as well as with synthetically generated data. The architecture for these models is still fairly simple, using only normalized data, fully connected layers, and ReLU activation functions after each layer. We find that we are able to fairly accurately predict the behavior of the seismic impedance, even though we are not able to properly capture the exact structure and noisiness of the impedance traces.
